- [Instructor] Java Server Faces is a
java based web application framework
that simplifies the development of web based applications.
JSF provides a more cohesive model
than servlets and JSP for building web apps.
It's model includes a server side UI component framework,
templating support and the ability to bind UI components
to java pojos known as backing beans.
JFS has a pretty long history,
so over time different terminology has come and gone.
Let's set a baseline before our overview
of the JSF architecture.
Within JSF, we find a face's servlet,
this servlet is responsible for orchestrating
the different events within the JSF life cycle.
Another key component is the JSF page, or view,
known as a facelet.
Facelets contain a server side component tree
and are constructed using a mixture of XHTML,
tag libraries, expressions, and templates.
The components within a facelet
represent server side representations
of UI components that will be rendered
as HTML on the browser.
The components within the facelet
are bound to backing beans which are pojos managed as beans
that contain fields and methods to support the UI.
Now let's look at the architecture.
When a browser passes HTTP request to the face's servlet,
it will build a component tree for the facelet
identified by the URL.
Then components in the component tree
will have their values updated
with corresponding information found in the request
and the values will be validated.
After validation, component values
will update fields in the manage bean they are bound to
with their values.
Next, the face's servlet will invoke any action methods
on the managed bean,
the action methods will ultimately return a string
which indicates the next facelet to render.
The facelet bean returned will have its component tree
updated with values from any backing bean it references
and then its component tree will be written as HTML
returned to the browser.
So, just a recap, JSF is a java EE web application framework
that is based upon MVC principles,
within the technology we find a life cycle
that orchestrates the request processing
which involves a sequence of steps
to bind server facelet components
to pojo based backing beans.
Within JSF, we'll also find a wide variety
of component libraries such as prime faces and omni faces
that provide us with out of the box components
that can change the look and feel of our page.
When creating a facelet's page,
there are several tag libraries available
out of the box for use with JSF applications.
Here you see them all listed,
I'm just going to highlight a few.
The facelet's tag library is primarily for templating
that creates the structure of a page.
For instance, embedding some XHTML into a parent template,
the HTML tag library provides components
that correspond with typical HTML elements,
however, these tags cause server side counter parts
to be created.
The pass through libraries were introduced
to support HTML5, allowing certain attributes
or elements not present in JSF tags
to be passed to the browser.
So here's a small example involving a facelet
and a backing bean that ties everything together.
The facelet leverages JSF tag libraries
to build a simple form
that is bound to fields and methods on the backing bean
using expression language.
You can see this indicated by the color coding.
When the command button is clicked,
the name string on the backing bean
will be updated and the greet method
on the backing bean will be invoked.
The greet method returns a string, greet,
which indicates the next facelet to render to the browser.
So that's a high level look at JSF.
We'll dive much deeper, during our hands on lessons.